INPUT DESCRIPTION - FROM NASA CR - READ BEFORE CHANGING HARDWIRED INPUTS
(Refer to CR for more info...)

ISOLV
Method to be used for solving the system of linear equations relating the 
boundary conditions to the vorticity strength, in integer format, in column 2. 
ISOLV = 0: Gauss-Seidel relaxation with accelerated convergence (under- or 
over-relaxation); ISOLV = 1: Purcell's vector orthogonalization method.

LAX
Chordwise, or streamwise, spacing of vortices, integer quantity punched in 
column 12, LAX = 0: vortices are collocated at the percent chord (X/C) values
determined by the cosine law X/C = 0.5 (1-cos((2K-1)pi/2N)), where K varies 
between 1 and N, N being the number of chordwise vortices; LAX = 1: vortices 
are collocated according to the equally-spaced quarter-chord law:
X/C = (4K-3)/(4N). The cosine law is recommended for greater accuracy for a
given number of vortices.

LAY
Spanwise, or lateral, spacing of vortices, integer quantity punched in column 
22. LAY = 0: vortices are spaced at intervals (elementary vortex span) given by
the cosine distribution law delta_b = bp(cos((J-1)pi/M)-cos(J*pi/M))/2, where
delta_b is the vortex element span, bp is the panel span, and 1 varies between 
1 and M, M being the spanwise number of vortices in a given panel; LAY = 1: 
vortices are equally spaced along the panel span, i.e., delta_b = bp/M. The
cosine spacing is recommended for enhanced accuracy, but for most cases the
difference in the results between cosine spanwise spacing and even spanwise 
spacing is negligible.

REXPAR
Over-relaxation parameter, in F10.0 format starting in column 31. This 
parameter is intended to accelerate the Gauss-Seidel relaxation process, and/or
make it converge when it might otherwise diverge. Blank, or zero, input, 
implies that the program will compute internally the optimum overrelaxation 
value. If a positive quantity between 0.01 and 0.99 is input, this becomes the 
value of the over-relaxation parameter that the program will use, the optimum 
value being overridden. If ISOLV = 1, this parameter is not used, and 
therefore, not a required input quantity.

HAG
Height above ground of the moment reference center, in F10.0 format starting in
column 41. If it is punched equal to zero, or left blank, the height above the 
ground is infinity, i.e., no ground effect. If a quantity different than zero 
is input, then the ground effect will be computed by the method of images, the 
height being given by the input value, in consistent units.

FLOATX
Longitudinal vortex wake flotation factor, in F10.0 format, starting in column 
51. If zero, or blank, then the trailing vortex legs being shed from the 
corresponding trailing edges, extend to infinity parallel to the X-Y plane. If 
a value different from zero is input, then the trailing vortex legs shed from 
the trailing edges form an angle alpha_v=FLOATX*ALPHA with the X-Y plane, where
ALPHA is the freestream angle of attack. (See figure A-6)

FLOATY
Lateral vortex wake flotation factor, in F10.0 format, starting in column 61.
If zero or blank, then the trailing vortex legs being shed from the
corresponding trailing edges extend to infinity parallel to the X-Z plane. If
a value different from zero is input, then the vortex legs shed from the
trailing edges form an angle beta_v = FLOATY*BETA with the X-Z plane, where
BETA is the freestream angle of slideslip (see figure A-6). 

ITRMAX
Maximum number of iterations allowed for the Gauss-Seidel relaxation method, in
I3 format right-adjusted to column 80. If no value is input, the code will make
ITRMAX = 99 by default. If ISOLV = 1, i.e., the vector orthogonalization 
solution is resorted to, then ITRMAX is not a required input. 

LATRL
Asymmetric flight or configuration flag. 0 in column 2 = symmetric flight and 
symmetric configuration about the X-Z plane. 1 in column 2 = asymmetric flight 
and/or asymmetric configuration.

PSI
Sideslip angle in degrees in F10.O format starting in column 11. + = wind 
coming from left side of nose. Input 0. or blank when LATRAL is 0. Used to 
obtain static stability derivatives such as Cnbeta, Cybeta, etc.

PITCHQ
Pitch rate in degrees/second, + = nose up pitch. Used to obtain dynamic 
stability derivatives such as Cmq, CLq, etc. LATRAL may be 0 when PITCHQ is 
nonzero.

ROLLQ
Roll rate in degrees/second, + = left roll. Input 0. or blank when LATRAL is 0.
Used to obtain dynamic stability derivatives such as Clp, Cnp, etc.

YAWQ
Yaw rate in degrees/second, + = left yaw or airstream component washing from 
left to right across nose of airplane. Input 0. or blank when LATRAL is 0.
Used to obtain dynamic stability derivatives such as Cnr, Cyr, etc.

VINF
Reference free stream velocity. If no value is input, VINF is automatically set
equal to 1.0 by the program. This parameter is only used when any of the 
angular rates is different from zero. It enters in the computation of the 
equivalent flow angle. For instance, if VINF = WSPAN/2 (wing semispan) and 
ROLLQ = 5.73, then pb/2V = 0.1, and the rolling moment coefficient printed out 
by the program will be exactly one-tenth the value of the stability derivative 
Clp. Likewise, if VINF = CBAR/2 (half the mean aerodynamic chord) and 
PITCHQ = 5.73, then the difference between the output pitching moment 
coefficient and the pitching moment coefficient for the case PITCHQ = 0 will 
be equal to one-tenth of the Cmq derivative.

NPAN
Number of major panels that will define the configuration; integer value SREF 
Reference area for force and moment coefficients,

CBAR
Pitching moment coefficient reference length. Usually mean aerodynamic chord. 

XBAR
Abscissa of moment reference point, X-coordinate in master frame of reference 

ZBAR
Ordinate of moment reference point. Z-coordinate in master frame of reference

WSPAN
Total wing span in units consistent with SREF and CBAR in F10.0 format starting
in column 51. If left blank, a value of 2.0 will be assumed by the program.

X1
X or longitudinal coordinate of the leading edge of one side of a major panel.
Usually taken as the most inboard side in the case of wings. Input in F10.0 
format starting in column 1.

Y1
Y or lateral coordinate of leading edge of first side of a major panel. Input 
in F10.0 format starting in column 11.

Z1
Z or vertical coordinate of leading edge of first side of a major panel. Input
in F10.0 format starting in column 21.
 
CORD1
Chord length of first side of major panel measured from XI, Yl, Z1 above in the
positive direction of, and parallel to, the X axis.

X2
X or longitudinal coordinate of the leading edge of the second side of the 
major panel described on card (7). Usually taken as the most outboard side in 
the case of wings. In the case of a closed curved panel, e.g., a cylindrical 
segment representative of a nacelle, X2 would be identical to X1. Input in 
F10.0 format starting in column 1.

Y2
Y or lateral coordinate of leading edge of second side of the major panel
described on Card (7). Input in F10.0 format starting i10 column 11.

Z2
Z or vertical coordinate of leading edge of second side of the major panel 
described on Card (7). Input in F10.0 format starting in column 21.
 
CORD2
Chord length of second side of major panel measured from X2, Y2, Z2 above in
the positive direction of, and parallel to, the X axis.

NVOR
Number of spanwise elements or vortices that will be used to represent the 
panel, in F10.0 format starting in column 1. NV0R <100.0.

RNCV
Number of chordwise vortices that will be used to represent the panel in F10.0
format starting in column 11. RNCV<=50. Tne program, using NV0R and RNCV, will 
subdivide the panel under consideration into a grid of NVOR * RNCV swept 
horseshoe vortices collocated in accordance with the values of the LAX and LAY
parameters. Note that chordwise and lateral distributions are independent,
e.g., a cosine chordwise spacing (LAX=0) is compatible with equal spanwise
distribution (LAY=1), and vice versa. The corresponding control points at which
the boundary conditions are satisfied are collocated according to the law 
(X/C)control = 0.5 (1-cos (K pi/N)), K varying between 1 and N, where N is the
number of chordwise vortices, if LAX = 0. If LAX = 1, then the control points 
are placed at (X/C)control = (4K-1)/(4N), namely, according to the equally
spaced three-quarter chord distribution. The spanwise location of the control 
points is always at the centerline of the elementary swept horseshoe vortices.

SPC
Leading edge suction multiplier, in F10.0 format starting in column 21.	0 = no
suction, 1 = 100 percent leading edge suction. Nonzero values are recommended 
for all panels whose leading edges are wetted by the airstream. The program has
the capability of computing the effects of free leading edge vorticity (leading
edge vortex flows) by a localized application of the Polhamus analogy. This 
computation is triggered by inputting the SPC parameter as a negative quantity.
When this is done, the sectional leading edge suction vector will be rotated 
normal to the camber surface at the leading edge, instead of the corresponding
attached-flow tangential orientation, and the forces and moments will be 
computed using the rotated suction vector.

PDL
Planar/curved panel flag, in F10.0 format starting in column 31. 0 = planar 
major panel is to be described (including warped planar). PDL = 999 (or >360) =
a curved major panel is to be described.

AINC1
Tangent of the angle subtended by major panel root chordline, or first edge
(described in Card (7)), and the positive X-axis, in F10.0 format starting in
column 1. Sign convention is determined by observing the edge 1 chordline and 
the X-axis from edge 2. The edge 1 chord is then rotated counterclockwise until
it is parallel to the X-axis. If the angle rotated through is less than 90 
degrees then the angle, and consequently its tangent, are considered positive.
If it is greater than 90 degrees, then AINC1 is negative.

AINC2
Tangent of the angle subtended by major panel tip chordline, or second edge
(described in Card (8)), in F10.0 format starting in column 11. Sign convention
is determined by observing edge 2 and the X—axis, looking in the direction from
edge 2 toward edge 1. The edge 2 chord is then rotated counterclockwise until
it is parallel to the X-axis. If the angle rotated through is less than 90 
degrees, then the sign is positive; otherwise it is negative.

ITS
Surface flag input as a two place integer in columns 21 and 22, right—adjusted
to column 22. ITS = 0 or blank indicates that the panel is considered as a 
lifting surface of zero thickness, i.e., both its upper and lower surface are 
wetted "by the external flow. ITS = 01 means that only the panel upper surface 
is wetted ty the real external flow. ITS = -1 indicates that only the panel 
lower surface is wetted by the real external flow. A double panel setup can 
then be used to represent a wing-like component with non-zero thickness, as 
previously illustrated in Figure 2. Notice that the X1, Yl, Z1, X2, Y2, and Z2
values to be input correspond to the control surface plane, and not to the 
actual chordal plane. The results are not critically sensitive to the 
separation between the upper surface panel (ITS = 01) and the lower surface 
panel (ITS = -1), a separation of two thirds the thickness ratio of the airfoil
being a good average value to use.

NAP
Number of percent chords or stations along the chord (C0RD1 and C0RD2) at which
the camber, or surface, ordinates are to be input. Input as a two-place integer
in columns 31 and 32, right-adjusted to column 32. Maximum value of NAP is 50.
A NAP = 0, 1, or 2 will be interpreted as a flat wing and no subsequent camber
cards will be expected. If ISYNT, on this same card, is to be input as 1, i.e.,
a design case, then NAP should be 0 or blank

IQUANT
Symmetry flag with respect to X-Z plane input as an integer in column 42. 
IQUANT = 0 or 2 indicates there is a mirror image of the panel on the opposite
side of the X-Z plane. IQUANT = 1 indicates the panel is unique to the side for
which it is being input.

ISYNT
Design/analysis flag input as an integer in column 52. ISYNT = 0 or blank 
indicates that the panel has been defined geometrically and only analysis is to
take place. ISYNT = 1 indicates that the panel camber is to be designed by the
program to support a specified pressure distribution. If NAP on this same card
was input >2, then ISYNT should be zero or blank.

NPP
Nonplanar parameter, input as on integer in column 62. NPP = 0 indicates that
all the vortex filaments representing a given surface lie in the cylindrical
surface whose directrix is the leading edge of the panel, and whose 
generatrices are all parallel to the X-axis. NPP = 1 denotes that the 
transverse vortex, filaments are located on the actual body surface, but the
bound trailing legs are parallel to the x-axis. This parameter affects the 
definition of ZC^ and ZC2 on cards 16 and 18.

NXS
Number of X-stations that will define the spatial flow field survey grid. 
NXS = 00 means no survey desired. Maximum value of NXS is 20. Input as a 
two-digit integer in columns 1 and 2, right-adjusted to column 2.

NYS
Number of Y-stations that will define the butt line values of the survey grid.
NYS = 00 for no survey. NYS and NZS (following) may be any positive integer
subject to NXS * NYS * NZS < 2000. Input as a two digit integer in columns 
11 and 12.

NZS
Number of Z-stations that will define the water line values of the survey grid.
NZS = 00 for no survey. Input as a two digit integer in columns 21 and 22.